# S3

## Basics

- object-based, i.e. you can store files there
- files can be from 0b to 5Tb
- unlimited storage
- files are put in **Buckets** ~ a folder in a cloud
- S3 is a universal namespace, i.e. names must be unique globally, however you can create buckets in
  different regions. When you come to a Console, you will see all of them in a common list.
- e.g. name: http://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/onlymys3folder, where "onlymys3folder" is a bucket
  name
- not suitable for installing OSs, but can be used for hosting static websites
- successful uploads generate 200 OK status code
- S3 scales automatically to meet your demand


- **Key** is a name of an object
- **Value** is a data, a seq of bytes


- Read after Write consistency for PUTs of new objects
- Eventual consistency for PUTs and DELETEs of existing objects (takes time to propagate)

**Cross Region Replication** allows you to replicate S3 data between AWS regions.

**S3 Transfer Acceleration** helps users from different regions to get data faster. Instead of
uploading data to the bucket in a remote region, it is uploaded to the edge location first, and then
moved to needed S3 location.

## Types

S3 Standard

- 99.99 (four nines) availability
- 99.999999999 (eleven nines) durability
- stored redundantly across different devices and different facilities
- designed to sustain the loss of two facilities concurrently

S3 Infrequently Access

- for data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed
- cheaper than S3 Standard, but charges for retrieval

S3 Infrequently Access in One Zone

- cheaper option for the infrequently accessed data
- do not require multiple AZ data resilience

S3 Intelligent Tiering (2018)

- uses ML to move data to the most cost-effective tier without performance impact

S3 Glacier

- secure, durable and low-cost option for data archiving
- retrieval times range from minutes to hours

S3 Glacier Deep Archive (2018)

- cheapest data archival option in S3
- retrieval time is ~12h

## Security

You can use **Bucket Policies** to e.g. make all your buckets public. You can use **Object
policies** to define access to individual files.

## HOW-TOs

### How to create an S3 bucket?

- go to Services - Storage - S3
- notice, how region changes to Global!
- click Create bucket
- define a globally unique bucket name
- by default, all public access is blocked
